# Sample Big Query project

Welcome to your new dbt project!

## Installation

This project was created by running `dbt init sample_dbt_project`.

You can create your own by following these steps:

1. Create a GC project
2. Go to BigQuery, "Create dataset"
   - dataset name is `dbt_bq_playground_-ds`
3. Login with Google Cloud credentials
   - Download the gcloud CLI
   - `gcloud auth application-default login` if you previously selected `oauth` when creating the dbt project
4. Create a sample dbt project

   ```shell
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   pip install dbt-bigquery

   dbt init sample_dbt_project
   ```

5. `cd` into the created dbt project to start using it

- add your project id and dataset name when prompted

## Stater project

### File structure

- `analysis/` - in the directory, you can save your analytical queries, which you use while building the pipeline.
- `data/` - contains all data (e.g. CSV files), which should be loaded into the database using the dbt seed - command.
- dbt_modules/ - contains packages installed by the dbt deps command.
- `logs/` - contains logs of executing dbt run command
- `macros/` - contains business logic, which can be reused many times in the project. You can use Jinja - templates in the macro code to use functionalities not available in pure SQL.
- `models/` - this folder contains all of the data models in your project.
- `target/` - contains files generated by the dbt during the build phase.  target/and dbt_modules/folders can be deleted by running dbt clean.
- `tests/` - contains tests used in the project.
- `dbt_project.yml` - This file contains the main configuration of your project. Here you can configure the - project name, version, default profile and project folder structure definition.

### Tests

A data test in the dbt is just an SQL file stored in the /tests directory, which contains an SQL query. When we run the dbt test command, the dbt will pick up tests from the project, run queries stored in files and check if the query returns 0 rows. If a query returns >0 rows, the dbt treats such assertion as a fail.

### Using the starter project

Try running the following commands:

- `dbt run`
- `dbt test`
- `dbt docs serve`

## Resources

- Learn more about dbt [in the docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](https://community.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices
